---
layout: post
title: "An Ode to the Git Commit"
---

Trivial to perform. Instantaneous to complete. Immensely powerful. Deeply
meaningful.

## A perfect identifier

Every time you commit, a SHA1 hash is generated. It's so much more than just a
unique reference, it represents your change because it was generated _by_ your
change. A single character difference makes an entirely different SHA1. Moreso
than any other kind of reference, your commit's hash truly represents your
changes.

The contents of your changes are only one part of the input to the hash
function, a reference to the parent commit is also included. This means that
the same diff applied to any other point in the repository's history generates
a different commit hash. In other words, your commit's hash is not only deeply
representative of the contents of your changes, but also to precisely the point
in history that they were made.

Cherish those 40 character hexidecimal numbers, for they are the perfect
embodiment of your accomplishments.

## An indelible mark

Because each commit is inextricably linked to its ancestors, a chain of commits
forms a durable tapestry that is passed down unaltered to everyone who
interacts with it. You can rest assured that every commit you make will live on
for the lifetime of the repository.

And each commit is preserved perfectly, it its entirety, ready to be called up
at any time. There's no deterioration, no loss of fidelity over time. Your
entry into history is permanent.

What a joy to be able to make such immense historical impact with such
quotidian ease! We are creating works that remember themselves and everyone who
ever touched them.

## A message to the future

As if the above were not enough, we're given an amazing opportunity with every
commit: an invitation to include a message.

The ritual of making a commit includes a moment when the committer is
presented with a blank page and asked simply to write. No other constraints are
imposed on this endeavor.


